Enhance docs for `Container` (#284)
mckinsey/vizro: vizro-core/docs/pages/user_guides/container.md

# How to use containers

This guide shows you how to use containers to group your components into sections and subsections within the page.

A [`Container`][vizro.models.Container] complements the concept of a [`Page`][vizro.models.Page], and the two models have almost identical arguments.
 [`Page.layout`](layouts.md) provides a way to structure the overall layout of the page, and a `Container` allows for more granular control within a specific section of that page.

While there is currently no apparent difference in rendering, additional functionality will be added to the `Container` soon (e.g. controls specific to that container),
enhancing the ability to manage related components.

## When to use containers
In general, any arbitrarily granular layout can already be achieved using [`Page.layout`](layouts.md) alone and is our
recommended approach if you just want to arrange components on a page with consistent row and/or column spacing.
However, there are a few cases where you might want to use a `Container` instead:

> - If you want to split up your grid into subgrids to organize components together

Author: Updated the section as follows:

![Screenshot 2024-01-30 at 18 57 22](https://github.com/mckinsey/vizro/assets/90609403/750c405c-1274-4fea-8f5a-e9cf1b5332e0)

- If you want to add a title to your subgrids

> - If you want different row and column spacing between subgrids

Reviewer: This point about different spacing is a good one and not something I had thought of before 👍

- If you want to apply controls to selected subgrids (will be supported soon)

> ## Containers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Basic usage
```
Otherwise it looks weird, especially on the navigation on the right

Author: I've renamed to Basic Containers and Nested Containers to be consistent with the `parameters.md` 👍

## When to use containers
In general, any arbitrarily granular layout can already be achieved using [`Page.layout`](layouts.md) alone and is our
recommended approach if you just want to arrange components on a page with consistent row and/or column spacing.

> The `Page.layout` provides a grid, while the `Container` enables you to insert a `grid` into the component space on that page, allowing for more granular control by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Page.layout` has a `grid` argument that sets the overall layout of the page. `Container.layout` also has a `grid` argument. This enables you to insert a further `grid` into a component's space on the page, allowing for more granular control by
```

        page = vm.Page(
            title="Containers",
            components=[  # (1)!
                vm.Container(
                    title="Container I",

>                     layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1]]),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1]]), # (2)!
```

        Vizro().build(dashboard).run()
        ```

>         1.  Note that the `Page.layout` argument is not specified here and will therefore default to `[[0], [1]]`, meaning the containers will be stacked in rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1.  Note that the `Page.layout` argument is not specified here and will therefore default to `[[0], [1]]`, meaning the containers will be stacked in rows.
         2. Stack the components inside this `Container` in columns.
```

Author: I just realised that this phrasing is basically the contrary of what flexbox does. If they are stacked below each other, they call it "stacked in one column", if they are stacked side by side, they call it "stacked in one row".

Maybe we use that instead?

Reviewer: Yeah, that's much clearer I think 👍 To align with our new convention on the other page I'd suggest using the words horizontal and vertical as well as explaining non-ambiguously what it means like you do:
```suggestion
        1. Note that the `Page.layout` argument is not specified here and will therefore default to `[[0], [1]]`, meaning the containers will be **vertically stacked** down the page in one column.
        2. **Horizontally stack** the components side-by-side inside this `Container` in one row.
```

        [![Container]][Container]

    [Container]: ../../assets/user_guides/components/containers.png

> 

Author: I like it! 👍

## Nested containers
Containers can be nested, providing a hierarchical structure for organizing components.
This nesting capability allows users to create more complex layouts and manage related components at various levels of granularity.

To create nested containers, simply add a `Container` to the `components` argument of another `Container`.

!!! example "Nested Containers"
    === "app.py"
        ```py

        import vizro.models as vm
        import vizro.plotly.express as px
        from vizro import Vizro

        df = px.data.gapminder()

        page = vm.Page(
            title="Nested Containers",
            components=[
                vm.Container(
                    title="Container Title",

>                     layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1], [0, 1]], , col_gap="80px"),

Author: Good catch, and yes, that works too! Sometimes, I forget the simpler version of the layout 😆 I've also just remembered your comment about storing some of these configurations in variables, such that we don't have seven levels of parenthesis. So I've kept the nested containers in variables as well 👍

                  - components:
                      - figure:
                          _target_: line
                          data_frame: gapminder
                          x: year
                          y: lifeExp
                          color: continent
                          title: Graph 4 - Nested Container II
                        type: graph
                      - figure:
                          _target_: scatter
                          data_frame: gapminder
                          x: gdpPercap
                          y: lifeExp
                          size: pop
                          color: continent
                          title: Graph 5 - Nested Container II
                        type: graph
                    layout:
                      grid: [[ 0, 1 ]]
                    type: container
                    title: Nested Container I
                layout:
                  grid: [[0, 1], [0, 1]]
                  col_gap: 80px
                type: container
                title: Container Title
            title: Nested Containers
        ```
    === "Result"
        [![NestedContainer]][NestedContainer]

>     [Container]: ../../assets/user_guides/components/nested_containers.png

Author: Yeah, that makes sense! I've tried to make it clearer here now - feel like I'm repeating myself a bit though 😅 : https://github.com/mckinsey/vizro/pull/284/commits/383e08a441ee430067953f44078445f533d30348

Let me know if this works 🤔

        [![Container]][Container]

    [Container]: ../../assets/user_guides/components/containers.png

## Nested containers
Containers can be nested, providing a hierarchical structure for organizing components.
This nesting capability allows users to create more complex layouts and manage related components at any level of granularity.

To create nested containers, simply add a `Container` to the `components` argument of another `Container`.

> !!! note
> 
>     Note that an almost identical layout can also be achieved using [`Page.layout`](layouts.md), see the
>     [advanced grid example](layouts.md#grid-advanced-example) on how this can be done. Here we use `Container` instead
>     of `Page.layout` because we need finer control of selected grid areas (e.g. adding different titles to each subgrid
>     and have different spacing between groups of components).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  In the below example, we have two groups of charts (left and right) that we would like to arrange separately on the `Page` while also providing a separate title for the two groups. This is often the case when some charts are topically related. In this case it makes sense to use `Containers` instead of `Page.layout`.
  
  Note that an almost identical layout can also be achieved using solely the [`Page.layout`](layouts.md) -  see the [advanced grid example](layouts.md#grid-advanced-example) on how this can be done.
```

Here is an alternative which is more user friendly I think. Before I was not quite sure if I would have understood. Too much talk of nesting, hierarchical, grid etc :P

Author: Thanks! 🚀  I've changed the order and rephrased a bit. What I would like the users to read first is that a similar layout can be achieved in a simpler way. And then afterwards explaining why we've decided to go for the Containers in this case. WDYT?

  ```
  Note that an almost identical layout can also be achieved using solely the [`Page.layout`](layouts.md) - 
    see the [advanced grid example](layouts.md#grid-advanced-example) on how this can be done.
    
    Here we use the `Containers` instead of `Page.layout`, as we want to provide clearer visual separation between two chart groups.
    In the below example, we have two groups of charts (left and right) and want to assign separate titles to each group
    and increase the gap between them for enhanced visual clarity. Such an arrangement is particularly advantageous 
    when grouping charts that are thematically related.
```

Reviewer 2: Hm I am not sure I like it. But I think we should also see it in the context of the below comment where after discussing with you I am even more of the opinion that the mention of nesting in combination with this example is actually confusing. So let's not iterate on this until we decide the below.

For this specific case:
- I think the admonition above the example looks visually not great, and it is also too big and long now
- The first sentence refers to something that follows a fair bit below, it does not make sense as it stands - I think actually the opposite: a user should understand first what they are supposed to be wanting to achieve, then see the example, then get notified (no need for big stand-out) that they can also achieve this with an alternative

My overall vote would go to:
- Rename this to "Advanced containers"
- kill the paragraph about nested containers (and move to next section - see last point)
- Use something like your second paragraph or my suggestion to frame the problem/idea
- Note subtly that you can achieve this elsehow
- Have another section about "Nested containers" with a 2-liner and maybe an inline example (ie not a big admonition, just some showcase of a `vm.Container` inside a `vm.Container`

Reviewer: P.S. if you are attached to the current example after spending lots of time on it then fine to make a new section "Advanced containers" and keep it in there like @maxschulz-COL suggested 😀 Alternatively we can just shelve it for now and bring it back with controls when we have added them.

Author: Thanks for your input - I would just shelve it for now! 👍

!!! example "Nested Containers"
    === "app.py"
        ```py

        import vizro.models as vm
        import vizro.plotly.express as px
        from vizro import Vizro

        df = px.data.gapminder()

        nested_container_one = vm.Container(
            title="Nested Container I",
            layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1], [2, 2]]),
            components=[
                vm.Graph(
                    figure=px.line(
                        df,

>                         title="Graph 1 - Nested Container I",

Reviewer 2: These titles do no appear fully in the screenshot (numbers are missing) which is actually not ideal, because it helps link the code to the outcome. Maybe we can shorten them so that they do?

Author: Yeah, it's because the titles do not automatically wrap. I've just shortened them now!

                        x="continent",
                        y="lifeExp",
                        color="continent",
                    ),
                ),
            ],
        )

        nested_container_two = vm.Container(
            title="Nested Container II",
            layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1]]),
            components=[
                vm.Graph(
                    figure=px.line(
                        df,
                        title="Graph 4 - Nested Container II",
                        x="year",
                        y="lifeExp",
                        color="continent",
                    ),
                ),
                vm.Graph(
                    figure=px.scatter(
                        df,
                        title="Graph 5 - Nested Container II",
                        x="gdpPercap",
                        y="lifeExp",
                        size="pop",
                        color="continent",
                    ),
                ),
            ],
        )

        page = vm.Page(
            title="Nested Containers",
            components=[
                vm.Container(
                    title="Container Title",

>                     layout=vm.Layout(grid=[[0, 1]], col_gap="80px"),

Reviewer 2: It's not even clear up to this point that these containers are nested. Maybe it makes sense to have a code pop-out comment here that shows that one could very easily (just 2 brackts or deleting the grid) out the two groups of charts below one another.

If we do, would maybe refer to that also in the above suggestion I made

Author: Hmm.. could you clarify? I am not sure if I understand above. I've renamed the variables to `child_container_one` and `child_container_two`, which I think makes it quite clear that the components of the Container itself are Containers now. Does that help?

Author: @antonymilne  - just had a chat with @maxschulz-COL and I get his confusion of why this example is used for nesting as theoretically we could also achieve the same layout by adding the two child container directly into `Page.components`.

Not sure what the right approach here is to make it clear that nesting is possible, but might not always be necessary? Should we actually just kill this section of nested containers and reuse the example here with two containers inside `Page.components`?

in general the nested containers make more sense when the Tabs come in. Before that one could probably achieve most of the layouts with top-level containers and page.layout only?

Reviewer 2: See comment above - my vote for the resolution of this

Reviewer: I definitely also see the cause of confusion here. The problem is that the use of these nested containers is indeed quite limited until we add `controls` to the `Container` model. At the moment, in terms of the overall grid created, there's nothing you can do with nesting `Container` models that you can't already do with `Page.layout`.

I would still keep this example because the `col_gap` here does enable something you can't do just purely through `Page.layout`. And in future when we add `controls` the example will become much more interesting and clearer what the point of containers is.

Reviewer: Hmm yes I definitely also see the cause of confusion here and I also saw had the same thoughts as @maxschulz-COL when I read through it again. The problem is that the use of these nested containers is indeed quite limited until we add `controls` to the `Container` model. At the moment, in terms of the overall grid created, there's nothing you can do with nesting `Container` models that you can't already do with `Page.layout`.

Let me comment my suggestion on the other conversation to keep it all on one place.

        [![Container]][Container]

    [Container]: ../../assets/user_guides/components/containers.png

> 

Author: I've added a comment to the code on line 42 and updated the Note to say it's equivalent to the grid you mention above 👍

> 

Author: ![Screenshot 2024-01-30 at 18 59 51](https://github.com/mckinsey/vizro/assets/90609403/29f35cb1-bdc5-43d9-b718-4c07843a17ad)
